.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt C_FMT_FMT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm c_fmt_fmt
.Nd format string
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb tertium
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In tertium/cpu.h
.In tertium/std.h
.Ft size
.Fn c_fmt_fmt "ctype_fmt *p" "char *fmt"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn c_fmt_fmt
function scans the format string
.Fa fmt
and copies characters into the output buffer until it encounters a
percent sign
.Pq Sq % ,
then it parses any flags, field width, precision, and converts the next
character as a format specifier, calling the appropriate formatting
function previously installed with
.Xr c_fmt_install 3 .
.Pp
The following format flags are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact -offset indent
.It Cm 0
Pad with zeroes instead of spaces.
.It Cm *
Take next argument as field width or precision.
.El
.Pp
Field width and precisions may be specified as integers.
.Pp
If no function was installed for the given format specifier it installs the
default ones.
.Pp
The following format specifiers are supported as default:
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact -offset indent
.It Cm #
Add number base as prefix.
.It Cm %
Percentage.
.It Cm +
Add sign to number.
.It Cm ,
Set number as float.
.It Cm -
Left padding.
.It Cm X
Hexadecimal number.
.It Cm b
Binary number.
.It Cm c
Character.
.It Cm d
Decimal number.
.It Cm h
Set number to short or char.
.It Cm l
Set number to long or long long.
.It Cm o
Octal number.
.It Cm p
Pointer address in hexadecimal.
.It Cm r
Error message from given error code.
.It Cm s
String.
.It Cm u
Set number as unsigned.
.It Cm x
Hexadecimal number
.Pq lower-case .
.It Cm z
Set number to uintptr.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn c_fmt_fmt
function returns the number of bytes formatted if successful;
otherwise \-1 is returned and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
static ctype_status
put(ctype_fmt *p, char *s, usize n)
{
	return c_nix_fdwrite(*p->farg, s, n);
}

size
writefmt(ctype_fd fd, char *fmt, ...)
{
	ctype_fmt f;
	ctype_size r;
	c_fmt_init(&f, &fd, put);
	va_start(f.args, fmt);
	r = c_fmt_fmt(&f, fmt);
	va_end(f.args);
	return r;
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr c_fmt_init 3 ,
.Xr c_fmt_install 3 ,
.Xr c_fmt_print 3
