.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt C_NIX_STRTOMODE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm c_nix_strtomode
.Nd convert string mode to numeric mode
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb tertium
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In tertium/cpu.h
.In tertium/std.h
.Ft uint
.Fn c_nix_strtomode "char *s" "uint mode" "uint mask"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn c_nix_strtomode
function converts the string representation of file mode
.Fa s
to numeric form.
.Pp
It takes the current numeric file mode
.Fa mode
and a mask
.Fa mask
specifying which bits can be set.
.Pp
The string
.Fa s
contains clauses specifying who permissions apply to and what permissions to set.
.Pp
Clauses are separated by commas. Each clause starts with a who character:
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It a
Apply permissions to user, group and other.
.It g
Apply permissions to group.
.It o
Apply permissions to other.
.It u
Apply permissions to user.
.El
.Pp
Then each clause contains permission characters:
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It X
Execute permission if file is directory or already has execute permission.
.It r
Read permission.
.It s
Setuid and setgid permissions.
.It t
Sticky permission.
.It w
Write permission.
.It x
Execute permission.
.El
.Pp
Each clause can have a leading +, - or = specifying how to modify permissions:
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent
.It +
Add specified permissions.
.It -
Remove specified permissions.
.It =
Set exact permissions.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn c_nix_strtomode
function returns the numeric mode if successful;
otherwise \-1 is returned and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er C_ERR_EINVAL
Invalid mode string passed.
.El
